Ah?
Ahh!
[NOZOMI laughs]
Hey. Meet tonight's dinner.
What happened?
He got me pretty good.
You okay?
Yeah. It'll heal super quick.
[sighs]
I'm worn out.
Yeah.
‐‐[crash]
‐‐[RAJDHANI gasps]
There he is.
[NOZOMI]
Welcome back.
[RAJDHANI]
How'd it go?
I went as far as I could,
but there's nothing.
[RAJDHANI]
You didn't see anything?
No islands, boats,
distant land masses?
Nothing at all?
Nothing.
Just water that seems
to go on forever.
This is a completely different
place than where we're from.
[NAGARA]
Hmm? What d'ya mean?
[RAJDHANI]
That somehow we've entered into
a strange new world.
It's some kind
of other This World.
Just like when the school
was covered in darkness.
Yeah. It's gotta be.
[KII]
Miss Mizuho?
Are you in?
[KII]
Yes! Just the one I wanted!
I'm kinda surprised
she wears makeup.
Mm.
Mine now.
She has this castle and, like,
anything else she wants.
Seems fair to me.
[RAJDHANI] We've been
transmitting our SOS signal
for a month now, and have not
received any acknowledgement,
and of course,
no sign of rescue.
[MACHI] We're still
connected to our network,
but the pages have been
frozen since day one.
Still can't reach
the outside at all.
But it's possible somebody will
eventually come and rescue us.
Well, maybe.
But I believe there's
another way for all of us
to get back home.
If we explore this world,
there's a good chance
we might find clues or even
a direct path to our world.
Huh?
[RAJDHANI] Recently...
Nagara was able to find
some other "gateways."
These gateways that he
stumbled upon in the school,
led to many other
"these worlds."
However, those worlds are
all places that are way beyond
our understanding.
We humans can't
even exist in them.
[sighs]
[MACHI] So what makes you think
we'll find a way to get home?
Good question.
Well, here on the island,
if something breaks,
it stays broken,
like you'd expect.
But it's different
inside the school.
If something breaks over there,
just wait a while
and it's back to normal,
like nothing ever happened.
So we can keep using
the power and water,
and the emergency food supply is
an all‐you‐can‐eat buffet.
What's more, like the school,
we're in a kind of static state.
So if you get hurt,
you'll be back to normal
before you know it.
It's weird, like nothing
ever happened.
Which led me to this theory...
The school and
the island are their own
totally different worlds,
and the same is true for all
the other new
"these worlds" we've found.
[gasps]
[RAJDHANI] Perhaps the discovery
of "these worlds" is related
to the phenomenon
that's making us drift.
And if we start
to retrace that...
[NARRATOR]
Why did this drift occur?
[gasps]
[HOSHI] We'll end up
at what originally caused
this to happen.
[RAJDHANI]
That's right. And...
...hopefully before
this world sinks.
[KII humming]
[gasps]
Ah!
[STUDENTS murmuring]
You okay? You hurt?
No. I'm fine.
[MACHI]
Water, now! Go get some water!
[CAP]
Uh, yeah!
It's happening again?
[STUDENTS gasping]
[CAP]
Hey, guys, I brought some water!
Aw, man!
[AYA]
I'm scared...
I wanna go home...
[HOSHI]
More of that blue fire.
Anyone have an idea
what's causing it?
[STUDENTS gasping, murmuring]
[HOSHI] We still don't
really know the first thing
about this island.
So what that means is
we all have to watch out
for our own safety.
[MACHI]
Hey. Thank you.
Sure. No problem at all.
Creepy...
[doorbell rings]
[MIZUHO]
Yeah?
[NAGARA] Uh. The student council
president wanted me to ask you
when those supplies
would get here.
Oh, uh, just a bit longer.
[NAGARA]
How much longer we talkin'?
A day? Three days?
Ya know what? I'll just
tell her it's three days.
There's something else
while I'm here.
[MIZUHO]
What?
[NAGARA]
Listen. In the woods, earlier...
[MIZUHO]
Say what? I can't hear you.
[NAGARA]
Nevermind, it's nothing.
[MIZUHO]
Okay.
Mm‐‐ Mm? Wait.
Tora? Where'd you go?
[hammer thudding]
[STUDENTS whooping, laughing]
[HAYATO] Sucks. Why did we get
stuck doing all the grunt work?
Because, man, what
else would we be doing?
Ah! Holy crap!
‐‐Another fire?!
‐‐Sure is.
What the hell?! There must be
some kinda demon here with us!
Do you think that's it?
Well, something's weird
about that fire.
I mean, you think it
could be somebody's power?
Mizuho might know something.
[HAYATO]
Hmm? Really? Why?
[NAGARA]
I saw her in the woods earlier.
She was standing
in front of a burning tree.
Blue flame, just like this.
[HAYATO]
Whoa, seriously?!
[RAJDHANI]
Fire! Ah!
Help! Help!
[HAYATO]
Rajdhani! You okay, man?!
Yeah...
Crazy...
[KII grunts] I'm pretty sure
Mizuho is behind all this.
I mean, so far, the only things
that burned was stuff
she got with her power.
You're right.
And those tools that caught fire
earlier came from her, too.
Hey!
You also mentioned
seeing her, right?
You said that she was burning
a tree out in the forest!
No. I said she‐‐
[KII]
Hold on, what?!
Yeah, it sounded
super creepy to me.
She was glaring,
then the tree caught fire!
Like, KAPOW, there it went!
It was that very
same blue fire, too!
[NAGARA] I didn't say that,
she was just‐‐
I knew it!
That doesn't prove
anything, you know.
We'll need to verify it.
I'll go and tell the others.
Wait.
Uh...
[MACHI grunts]
Mm?
Here.
[MACHI]
What's this?
It's a list of who's
on the message board.
[MACHI gasps]
How did you get this?
[HOSHI] I asked my grandpa's
lawyer, and he went and filed
a disclosure request.
I wanted to make sure.
And yep, that girl's
in our class.
[TEACHER 02A]
What's up?
That's quite an intense look.
Sorry, but I can't
let this slide.
There was a lot at play.
On both sides.
Yeah, so? No excuse.
You may be right, but you still
have to pick your battles.
Well...
I really don't like this.
[TEACHER 02A]
I know.
You're still a kid,
you've got time to recover.
I hear you.
[MIZUHO]
Tora! Where'd you go?
Tora!
[MIZUHO]
Mm...
[meows]
We gotta talk.
[MACHI] You've been
posting lies about me
on the internet, haven't you?
[MIZUHO]
What do you mean?
No use denying.
We have proof that you're
the one behind it all.
Wow, the privileged class
strikes again.
You do have your ways.
Take back what you said!
Why should I?
I mean, it's the truth.
Nothing wrong with
making the facts known.
What?! This is nothing
to laugh about!
Can't help but wonder
if the teacher knows.
Using library Wi‐Fi
to slander a classmate.
Seems like they should be
aware of this behavior.
It's not their problem.
You might believe that, but the
way I see it, they're liable.
[MIZUHO grunts]
Come on.
Just tell the new student
council prez you're sorry.
‐‐[MIZUHO] Shut up.
‐‐Say what?
I couldn't hear you.
I didn't do anything wrong.
You need to apologize!
[gasps]
You're nuts!
[HOSHI]
Hmm...
[STUDENT 02B]
Really?
So Mizuho's making
those blue fires?
[STUDENT 02A] Yeah, it's some
kind of curse power.
[STUDENT 02A] Nobody has a clue
what she's even thinking.
It's creepy...
[thud]
[NAGARA]
Hmm?
What're you up to?
It's too late.
We... It's beyond help.
It's just like that day.
What do you mean?
You know, when everything
first started.
You'd left another
poor bird to die.
[gasps]
[NAGARA] I didn't have time
to try and help it.
Plus, they say to leave it
alone if you don't know
what you're doing.
[NOZOMI]
So what?
[NAGARA sighs] Fine, then. I
let it die, 'cuz I'm heartless.
Totally selfish.
That what you wanted to hear?
Not true.
[NAGARA] Mm. Yeah, right.
You don't know everything.
Back then, I kept my mouth shut.
But is being abandoned
by someone a good reason
to abandon someone else?
[HOSHI]
Hey. What's up?
We have a question for you.
Got a sec?
[MIZUHO grunts]
Those blue fires yours?
This is stupid.
You do realize I'm
only asking for your sake.
This is your big chance to
earn back everyone's trust‐‐
[MIZUHO]
Huh?!
Look, we're just trying to avoid
a repeat of what happened
with our friend, Cap.
[CAP groans]
Hey! Don't lump me in
with that meathead!
I have had more than enough
of your stupid little tricks!
Why do you have
to be so hostile?
We're on your side.
We wanna make sure
you're protected.
[TAZAWA sighs]
You're gonna have to change your
ways‐‐or this won't end well.
[MIZUHO whimpers softly]
[NOZOMI]
Figure anything out?
Ah, you're just in time.
What's this?
That is called a "PocketGame."
It's an old‐school portable.
I made some toys for Mizuho, and
she gave that to me in return.
What's interesting,
is it was in that fire earlier,
but didn't burn,
which got me wondering.
Other stuff burned,
so was there anything
that made this different?
[NOZOMI]
Hmm. Was there?
I think... It's 'cuz
I traded something for it.
A fair trade
exchange between us.
I gave Mizuho something
of similar value for this.
Everything else was all stuff
I got without trading.
[NOZOMI] You're talking
money, aren't you?
That's exactly it. Oh, yeah.
You want a special item?
You're asking me now?
[RAJDHANI]
Go on, take it.
[NOZOMI]
Okay?
[NOZOMI gasps]
Huh...?
Ah‐‐ Ah! Ow, ow! Hot! Hot!
‐‐[groans]
‐‐[RAJDHANI] You're okay.
This blue fire just feels
hot to us, so don't worry,
it won't actually burn you.
That's weird.
You wanna know what else?
Mizuho's things aren't
the only stuff that burns.
I made that toy
using my power, after all.
[NOZOMI] That means... the fires
aren't really Mizuho's fault.
[RAJDHANI]
Nope.
So, I take it this is another
one of This World's rules?
[RAJDHANI]
Probably.
There are still some factors
I haven't confirmed.
So I'm not a hundred
percent positive.
But I will say this:
I'm fairly certain she's not the
one behind these bizarre fires.
And if that's the case,
I wish she'd just tell us.
We're too dependent.
Huh?
[NOZOMI]
On her, and on this world.
[MIZUHO]
Tora!
Are you here?
Hey. Nuh‐uh!
That's Tora's bowl.
[MIZUHO]
Stupid cat.
He's too young...
He doesn't know anything...
Definitely not ready
to live all on his own yet.
[MIZUHO]
We're a lot alike.
[glass shattering]
[MIZUHO gasps]
Ah!
[MIZUHO whimpers]
[MIZUHO gasps]
[HOSHI]
So, listen...
If you sincerely apologize
and show some remorse
for everything you've done,
we'll forgive you.
[MIZUHO grunts]
We can get past
all this unpleasantness,
but only if we work together.
You have until noon tomorrow.
So think it over.
Tell me. What were you doing?
You don't wanna lose another
person you care about, do you?
It's actually super simple.
Just say the words.
I know what I have to do!
[CATS]
Mrowr.
[MACHI]
If you'd done that, then...
...you wouldn't have had to
say goodbye to your teacher.
[MIZUHO sobs softly]
[gasping]
Yoink! You gotta grab it,
before it's gone!
Nah, I'm good, man.
Take this one, too.
Whoa! You sure?
Yep. I don't really
want anything.
[HAYATO] That's awesome!
Thanks so much!
But, no take backs
you hear me, bro?
Yeowch!
Aw, man, my money!
‐‐[STUDENTS gasping, yelping]
‐‐[SHIIBA] Hot! Hot!
I told you, this is Mizuho!
We need to get rid of her!
Just calm down, she isn't
the one behind this, okay?
These fires are just part
of the island's rules,
and if we pay for this stuff,
it won't burn up!
Still though, we have to do
something about this situation.
[NOZOMI]
Hmm? Oh! That's Mizuho's cat.
‐‐[NAGARA] Hmm.
‐‐Ya steal it?
[NAGARA]
No. It's hurt, needs some help.
Oh? You sure changed your tune.
[NAGARA]
Mm. I just feel bad.
It's my fault
they don't trust her.
[TORA graons softly]
Well, then. Let's go see her‐‐
Mizuho.
[NAGARA]
Can we leave?
[NOZOMI]
Sure we can.
If we run.
They're all... a buncha liars.
[NOZOMI]
Found her!
[panting]
Whoa!
Hey.
I know that
this isn't your fault.
It's all on me.
I couldn't keep
my big mouth shut.
Sorry.
[MIZUHO]
It's not you.
They would've found a reason
to turn against me eventually.
[NAGARA]
But still...
Sorry.
[GEN]
Mrowr?
[TORA]
Meowr...?
[MIZUHO gasps]
[NAGARA]
Oh, yeah.
Found your cat‐‐he was
stuck in the woods.
[MIZUHO]
Thank goodness...
[sobs]
[NOZOMI] Anyway, you gonna
sulk forever, or what?
You're not the one
burning stuff, are you?
So just set things straight‐‐
[MIZUHO]
I know that!
I knew I had to from
the very beginning!
But I... I still...
couldn't do anything by myself.
Guess we can't
live here anymore, huh?
[NAGARA grunts]
‐‐[crickets chirping]
‐‐[gasping]
[NAGARA]
Who knew?
[NAGARA] We're not even able to
change this world after all.
You see? It's okay.
[MIZUHO]
Mm‐hmm.
[RAJDHANI]
The island's back like it was?
I don't understand, but yeah.
[HAYATO] Awesome!
That's Asakaze for ya!
[HOSHI]
Hmm.
[MIZUHO] Stuff burning.
That wasn't my fault.
[STUDENTS murmuring]
[MIZUHO]
Actually...
That money and
the island burning was me.
[gasps]
Seriously?
You're kidding me!
So, look. I'm sorry about that.
I truly am.
But...
The rest of it, wasn't me, okay?
No way!
[STUDENTS murmuring]
[NOZOMI]
Mm‐hmm!
[RAJDHANI]
So let's review.
What happens if you get
something on this island
without paying for it?
[RAJDHANI]
Hmm. Ah‐‐ Yikes!
We don't know why,
but it burns up.
As long as we know
that's how it works here,
we just gotta learn
to live with it.
It's called adaptability.
Therefore, today, I'm announcing
a revolutionary new app
which will help us adapt‐‐
It's called HYO‐RYU‐COIN!
[STUDENTS murmuring]
[RAJDHANI] This is an
electronic payment system
that uses the 'net.
You can open your own ledger
and manage asset transactions.
With this, we won't be going
against the island's rules.
And can buy stuff without
the risk of it catching fire.
[STUDENTS gasping, murmuring]
Huh?
Here, for you.
Yeah?
Meow?
[MIZUHO] Thanks a lot
for finding my cat.
Hey, um...
We gotta square up. How much?
[MIZUHO]
Nothing.
Yep. This one'll
be on the house.
Oh...
[seagull crying]
[ASAKAZE]
So, uh. What do we do now?
[RAJDHANI sighs] I wasn't
expecting this world to go back
to the way it was.
[NOZOMI]
Hey, guys?
I can see the way out.
Seriously?
[NOZOMI]
Mm‐hmm. I see the way home.
I thought I could just
reach out and touch it.
But now... it's so far off.
Like a pinpoint.
[NOZOMI]
"Compass."
I guess that's my power.